# BME280

## Hint

- if you read raw data from a I²C sensor it is recommended to read the data sheet

## I²C Protocol
 
- BUS-Protocoll ==> can connect multiple devices to BUS
- Inter-Integrated Circuit 

- little bit slower than SPI but need less pins
- good for low data rate sensors

Pins:
- Clock (SCL)
- Data (SDA)

What is I²C:
https://www.analog.com/en/technical-articles/i2c-primer-what-is-i2c-part-1.html


## Read Data

*Hint:* To read out data after a conversion, it is strongly recommended to use a burst read and not address every register individually. This will prevent a possible mix-up of bytes belonging to different
measurements and reduce interface traffic.Note that in I²C mode, even when pressure was not measured, reading the unused registers is faster than reading temperature and humidity data
separately.

Data readout is done by starting a burst read from 0xF7 to 0xFC (temperature and pressure) or from 0xF7 to 0xFE (temperature, pressure and humidity). The data are read out in an unsigned 20-bit format both for pressure and for temperature and in an unsigned 16-bit format for humidity. It is strongly recommended to use the BME280 API, available from Bosch Sensortec, for readout and compensation. For details on memory map and interfaces, please consult chapters 5 and 6 respectively.



- BME280 offers three sensor modes: sleep mode, forced mode and normal mode
- s. chapter 5.4.5
    - Sleep mode: no operation, all registers accessible, lowest power, selected after startup
    - Forced mode: perform one measurement, store results and return to sleep mode
    - Normal mode: perpetual cycling of measurements and inactive periods.

### SINGLE-BYTE READ




## Datasheet extracts

### 6.1 Interface Selection
- if CSB (chip select) is connected to V_DDIO &rarr; I²C interface is active
- after CSB has been pulled down once (regardless of whether any clock cycle occurred), the I²C interface is disabled until the next power-on-reset
- this is done in order to avoid inadvertently decoding SPI traffic to
another slave as I²C data

- since the device startup is deferred until both VDD and VDDIO are
established, there is no risk of incorrect protocol detection because of the power-up sequence used.
- however, if I²C is to be used and CSB is not directly connected to VDDIO but is instead connected to a programmable pin, it must be ensured that this pin already outputs the VDDIO level during power-on-reset of the device. If this is not the case, the device will be locked in SPI mode and not respond to I²C commands


## Tutorials:
Wie funktioniert I2C: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3wlITceWQBw